README.md, before:

# HDN Ring Modulator

[![Build](https://github.com/user1303836/hdn-ringmod/actions/workflows/build.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/user1303836/hdn-ringmod/actions/workflows/build.yml)

A pitch-tracking ring modulator audio plugin (VST3/AU/Standalone) built with JUCE 8.

![funny_picture](img/Screenshot%202026-02-14%20at%208.30.52%20PM.png)

## Requirements

- CMake 3.25+
- C++20 compiler
- **macOS**: Xcode command line tools
- **Windows**: Visual Studio 2022 (MSVC)

## Building

Clone with submodules (JUCE is pinned as a git submodule):

```bash
git clone --recursive https://github.com/user1303836/hdn-ringmod.git
cd hdn-ringmod
```

### macOS

Requires Xcode command line tools (`xcode-select --install`).

Using the default Makefile generator:

```bash
cmake -B build -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release
cmake --build build --config Release
```

For faster builds with Ninja (`brew install ninja`):

```bash
cmake -B build -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release -G Ninja
cmake --build build --config Release
```

To build a universal binary (arm64 + x86_64):

```bash
cmake -B build -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release -G Ninja -DCMAKE_OSX_ARCHITECTURES="arm64;x86_64"
cmake --build build --config Release
```

The built plugins will be in:
- `build/HdnRingmod_artefacts/Release/VST3/HDN Ring Modulator.vst3`
- `build/HdnRingmod_artefacts/Release/AU/HDN Ring Modulator.component`
- `build/HdnRingmod_artefacts/Release/Standalone/HDN Ring Modulator.app`

To install, copy the `.vst3` to `~/Library/Audio/Plug-Ins/VST3/` or the `.component` to `~/Library/Audio/Plug-Ins/Components/`.

### Windows

Requires Visual Studio 2022 with the "Desktop development with C++" workload.

From a **Developer Command Prompt for VS 2022** (or using `vcvarsall.bat`):

```cmd
cmake -B build
cmake --build build --config Release
```

The built plugin will be in `build\HdnRingmod_artefacts\Release\VST3\HDN Ring Modulator.vst3`.

To install, copy the `.vst3` folder to `C:\Program Files\Common Files\VST3\`.

### Running Tests

```bash
cmake -B build -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release -DHDN_BUILD_TESTS=ON
cmake --build build --config Release
ctest --test-dir build --build-config Release --output-on-failure
```

## Parameters

| Parameter | Range | Default | Description |
|---|---|---|---|
| Mix | 0 - 100% | 50% | Dry/wet blend |
| Rate Multiplier | 0.1 - 8.0x | 1.0x | Multiplier applied to tracked pitch |
| Manual Rate | 20 - 5000 Hz | 440 Hz | Fixed oscillator frequency (Manual mode) |
| Mode | Pitch Track / Manual | Pitch Track | Pitch source selection |
| Smoothing | 0 - 100% | 50% | Pitch tracking smoothing amount |
| Sensitivity | 0 - 100% | 50% | Pitch detection confidence threshold |
| Waveform | Sine / Triangle / Square / Saw | Sine | Ring modulator oscillator shape |

## How It Works

In **Pitch Track** mode, the plugin detects the pitch of the incoming audio using the YIN algorithm, then ring-modulates the signal with an oscillator locked to that pitch (multiplied by the Rate Multiplier). The wet signal is confidence-gated so the effect fades in as pitch detection becomes more certain.

In **Manual** mode, the oscillator runs at a fixed frequency set by the Manual Rate knob.

## License

GPLv3. See [LICENSE](LICENSE).

Commit message:

Add plugin description section to README

README.md, after:

# HDN Ring Modulator

[![Build](https://github.com/user1303836/hdn-ringmod/actions/workflows/build.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/user1303836/hdn-ringmod/actions/workflows/build.yml)

A pitch-tracking ring modulator audio plugin (VST3/AU/Standalone) built with JUCE 8.

![funny_picture](img/Screenshot%202026-02-14%20at%208.30.52%20PM.png)

## What Is This?

A ring modulator multiplies your audio signal by an oscillator waveform, producing sum and difference frequencies that create metallic, bell-like, or alien timbres. Traditional ring modulators use a fixed carrier frequency, which means the effect sounds different depending on what note you play -- often dissonant and hard to control.

This plugin adds **pitch tracking**. It listens to your input, detects the fundamental frequency in real time using the YIN pitch detection algorithm, and locks the modulator oscillator to that pitch. The result is a ring mod effect that tracks what you're playing, producing consistent harmonic relationships regardless of the note. The Rate Multiplier parameter lets you set the ratio between the detected pitch and the oscillator -- 1x gives you octave doubling, 2x gives you a fifth above that, and fractional values produce subharmonic content.

When pitch detection confidence is low (silence, noise, polyphonic content), the effect gracefully fades to dry signal rather than producing artifacts.

The plugin also has a conventional **Manual** mode where the oscillator runs at a fixed frequency, for traditional ring mod sounds.

Four oscillator waveforms are available (sine, triangle, square, saw), each producing a different harmonic character. Square and saw use PolyBLEP anti-aliasing to reduce digital artifacts.

## Requirements

- CMake 3.25+
- C++20 compiler
- **macOS**: Xcode command line tools
- **Windows**: Visual Studio 2022 (MSVC)

## Building

Clone with submodules (JUCE is pinned as a git submodule):

```bash
git clone --recursive https://github.com/user1303836/hdn-ringmod.git
cd hdn-ringmod
```

### macOS

Requires Xcode command line tools (`xcode-select --install`).

Using the default Makefile generator:

```bash
cmake -B build -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release
cmake --build build --config Release
```

For faster builds with Ninja (`brew install ninja`):

```bash
cmake -B build -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release -G Ninja
cmake --build build --config Release
```

To build a universal binary (arm64 + x86_64):

```bash
cmake -B build -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release -G Ninja -DCMAKE_OSX_ARCHITECTURES="arm64;x86_64"
cmake --build build --config Release
```

The built plugins will be in:
- `build/HdnRingmod_artefacts/Release/VST3/HDN Ring Modulator.vst3`
- `build/HdnRingmod_artefacts/Release/AU/HDN Ring Modulator.component`
- `build/HdnRingmod_artefacts/Release/Standalone/HDN Ring Modulator.app`

To install, copy the `.vst3` to `~/Library/Audio/Plug-Ins/VST3/` or the `.component` to `~/Library/Audio/Plug-Ins/Components/`.

### Windows

Requires Visual Studio 2022 with the "Desktop development with C++" workload.

From a **Developer Command Prompt for VS 2022** (or using `vcvarsall.bat`):

```cmd
cmake -B build
cmake --build build --config Release
```

The built plugin will be in `build\HdnRingmod_artefacts\Release\VST3\HDN Ring Modulator.vst3`.

To install, copy the `.vst3` folder to `C:\Program Files\Common Files\VST3\`.

### Running Tests

```bash
cmake -B build -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release -DHDN_BUILD_TESTS=ON
cmake --build build --config Release
ctest --test-dir build --build-config Release --output-on-failure
```

## Parameters

| Parameter | Range | Default | Description |
|---|---|---|---|
| Mix | 0 - 100% | 50% | Dry/wet blend |
| Rate Multiplier | 0.1 - 8.0x | 1.0x | Multiplier applied to tracked pitch |
| Manual Rate | 20 - 5000 Hz | 440 Hz | Fixed oscillator frequency (Manual mode) |
| Mode | Pitch Track / Manual | Pitch Track | Pitch source selection |
| Smoothing | 0 - 100% | 50% | Pitch tracking smoothing amount |
| Sensitivity | 0 - 100% | 50% | Pitch detection confidence threshold |
| Waveform | Sine / Triangle / Square / Saw | Sine | Ring modulator oscillator shape |

## How It Works

In **Pitch Track** mode, the plugin detects the pitch of the incoming audio using the YIN algorithm, then ring-modulates the signal with an oscillator locked to that pitch (multiplied by the Rate Multiplier). The wet signal is confidence-gated so the effect fades in as pitch detection becomes more certain.

In **Manual** mode, the oscillator runs at a fixed frequency set by the Manual Rate knob.

## License

GPLv3. See [LICENSE](LICENSE).
